Monitoring of CNPG backups. (#48051)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/guides/high-availability/single-cluster/monitoring-cnpg.adoc

|===
| Field | Expected value | What it means

| `Current LSN`, `Sent LSN`, `Write LSN`, `Flush LSN`, `Replay LSN`
| A two-part hexadecimal value like `0/7000000`, indicating a log file number and a byte-offset within that log file.
| Log Sequence Number (LSN) is a number representing a position in the Write-Ahead Log (WAL) stream.

The `Current LSN` shows the latest position recorded by a particular instance.

The `Sent`, `Write`, `Flush` and `Replay LSN` show the latest position for a particular standby which has been sent to it by the primary, written to the file system, safely written to a storage device (flushed from cache), and replayed by the database. Differences between values indicate a lag between individual phases in terms of bytes.

The difference between a standby's `Replay LSN` and the primary's `Current LSN` indicates the overall replication lag for the particular standby in terms of bytes.

| `Write Lag`, `Flush Lag`, `Replay Lag`
| `00:00:00.00NNNN`
| Replication lag metrics. A non-zero value that grows over time indicates the standby is falling behind.

| `State`
| `streaming`

> | The standby is connected to the primary and actively receiving WAL data.

Reviewer: It could be improved with the possible values
```
Current WAL sender state. Possible values are:

startup: This WAL sender is starting up.

catchup: This WAL sender's connected standby is catching up with the primary.

streaming: This WAL sender is streaming changes after its connected standby server has caught up with the primary.

backup: This WAL sender is sending a backup.

stopping: This WAL sender is stopping.
```

|===
| Field | Expected value | What it means

| `Current LSN`, `Sent LSN`, `Write LSN`, `Flush LSN`, `Replay LSN`
| A two-part hexadecimal value like `0/7000000`, indicating a log file number and a byte-offset within that log file.

> | Log Sequence Number (LSN) is a number representing a position in the Write-Ahead Log (WAL) stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| A Log Sequence Number (LSN) is a pointer to a position in the Write-Ahead Log (WAL) stream.
```

The `Current LSN` shows the latest position recorded by a particular instance.

> The `Sent`, `Write`, `Flush` and `Replay` LSNs show the latest position for a particular standby which has been sent to it by the primary, written to the file system, safely written to a storage device (flushed from cache), and replayed by the database. Differences between values indicate a lag between individual phases in terms of bytes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Sent`, `Write`, `Flush`, and `Replay` LSNs show the latest WAL position for a particular standby that has been sent by the primary, written to the file system, safely written to a storage device (flushed from cache), and replayed by the database, respectively. Differences between these values indicate lag between individual phases in terms of bytes.
```

> The difference between a standby's `Replay LSN` and the primary's `Current LSN` indicates the overall replication lag for the particular standby in terms of bytes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The difference between a standby's `Replay LSN` and the primary's `Current LSN` indicates the overall replication lag for that standby in terms of bytes.
```

> | `quorum` or `sync`

Reviewer: probably here too
```
Synchronous state of this standby server. Possible values are:

async: This standby server is asynchronous.

potential: This standby server is now asynchronous, but can potentially become synchronous if one of current synchronous ones fails.

sync: This standby server is synchronous.

quorum: This standby server is considered as a candidate for quorum standbys.
```

Author: I included this info but I'm a bit unsure about the `quorum` description. IMO it should be made clear that this option is also a form of synchronous replication.

Reviewer: I copied the data from the link you added to the docs: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/monitoring-stats.html#MONITORING-PG-STAT-REPLICATION-VIEW

Author: Ok, lets keep it then.

| Indicates synchronous replication is active for this standby. In a quorum-based synchronous setup, at least one standby should be in `quorum`.

| `Replication Slot`
| `active`
| Confirms the replication slot is in use and the standby is consuming WAL.
|===

== Review the status through Prometheus and Grafana

Monitor CloudNativePG clusters leveraging https://prometheus.io/[Prometheus] and https://grafana.com/[Grafana].

=== Set up monitoring through Prometheus and Grafana 

> Installation of the Prometheus stack is out of scope of this guide.

Reviewer: Remove the link to quickstarts and use the monitoring link IMO.

> == Review the status through Prometheus and Grafana

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Review the status via Prometheus and Grafana
```

=== Enable monitoring of the CloudNativePG cluster

> . Enable collection of metrics by creating a PodMonitor resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Enable metric collection by creating a PodMonitor resource:
```

<1> Name of the CloudNativePG cluster to be monitored.
+
. Add the https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cloudnative-pg/grafana-dashboards/refs/heads/main/charts/cluster/grafana-dashboard.json[grafana-dashboard.json] from the https://github.com/cloudnative-pg/grafana-dashboards[cloudnative-pg/grafana-dashboards GitHub project] to your Grafana instance.
+
. Optionally, customize the monitoring according to the https://cloudnative-pg.io/docs/${properties["cnpg.major-minor-version"]}/monitoring#monitoring-instances[Monitoring section of the CloudNativePG documentation].

> === Observe Replication Status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Observe replication status
```

| Time elapsed between WAL flushed on the primary and replayed on the standby.
|===

> === Observe Backups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Observe backups
```

If backups are enabled, use the https://cloudnative-pg.io/plugin-barman-cloud/docs/observability/[metrics exposed by the Barman Cloud Plugin] to monitor their status:

[%autowidth]
|===
| Metric | Description

| `barman_cloud_cloudnative_pg_io_last_available_backup_timestamp`
| UNIX timestamp of the most recent _successful backup_.

| `barman_cloud_cloudnative_pg_io_last_failed_backup_timestamp`
| UNIX timestamp of the most recent _failed backup_ attempt.

| `barman_cloud_cloudnative_pg_io_first_recoverability_point`
| UNIX timestamp of the earliest point in time available for cluster recovery.

|===

> == What healthy standby looks like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== What a healthy standby looks like
```
